[docs] Re-organize overview, getting started and native module API (#19291)
expo/expo: docs/pages/modules/get-started.mdx

---
title: Get Started
---

import { CodeBlocksTable } from '~/components/plugins/CodeBlocksTable';
import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

## Create a new module

To create a new Expo module from scratch, run the `create-expo-module` script as shown below. The script will ask you a few questions and then generate the native Expo module along with the example app for iOS and Android that uses your new module.

<Terminal cmd={[`$ npx create-expo-module`]} />

## Set up a library as an Expo module

You may want to use the Expo Modules API in existing React Native libraries, for example with [AppDelegate Subscribers](./appdelegate-subscribers.mdx) you can hook into `AppDelegate` methods without requiring developers to copy any code over to their own `AppDelegate`. This is particularly useful to add seamless support for Expo managed projects to a library. The following steps will set up your existing React Native library to have access to the Expo Modules API.

Create the [**expo-module.config.json**](./module-config.mdx) file at the root of your project and start from the empty object `{}` inside it. We will fill it in later to enable specific features.

> The presence of the module config is enough for [Expo Autolinking](https://docs.expo.dev/workflow/glossary-of-terms/#expo-autolinking) to recognize it as an Expo module and automatically link your native code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The presence of the module config is enough for [Expo Autolinking](/workflow/glossary-of-terms/#expo-autolinking) to recognize it as an Expo module and automatically link your native code.
```

Skip the domain in link.

<CodeBlocksTable tabs={["package.json"]}>

```json
{
  // ...
  "devDependencies": {
    "expo-modules-core": "^X.Y.Z"
  },
  "peerDependencies": {
    "expo": "*"
  }
}
```

</CodeBlocksTable>

## Create a native module

To use the Expo Modules API for native modules, you need to [set up your library as an Expo module](#set-up-a-library-as-an-expo-module). Once complete, create Swift and Kotlin files from the templates below.

<CodeBlocksTable tabs={["MyModule.swift", "MyModule.kt"]}>

```swift
import ExpoModulesCore

public class MyModule: Module {
  public func definition() -> ModuleDefinition {
    // Definition components go here
  }
}
```

```kotlin
package my.module.package

import expo.modules.kotlin.modules.Module
import expo.modules.kotlin.modules.ModuleDefinition

class MyModule : Module() {
  override fun definition() = ModuleDefinition {
    // Definition components go here
  }
}
```

</CodeBlocksTable>

> Then, add your classes to iOS and/or Android `modules` in the [module config](./module-config.mdx). Expo Autolinking will automatically link these classes as native modules in the user's project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, add your classes to Android and/or iOS `modules` in the [module config](./module-config.mdx). Expo Autolinking will automatically link these classes as native modules in the user's project.
```

Platform order.

<CodeBlocksTable tabs={["expo-module.config.json"]}>

```json
{
  "ios": {
    "modules": ["MyModule"]
  },
  "android": {
    "modules": ["my.module.package.MyModule"]
  }
}
```

</CodeBlocksTable>

If you already have an example app in your workspace, ensure that the module is linked correctly.

> - **On iOS** you need to run `pod install` to link the new class.
> - **On Android** the native module class will be linked automatically before building, as part of the Gradle build task.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **On Android** the native module class will be linked automatically before building, as part of the Gradle build task.
- **On iOS** you need to run `pod install` to link the new class.
```

We should preferably list Android before iOS, see:
*https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/guides/Expo%20Documentation%20Writing%20Style%20Guide.md#referencing-android-ios-and-web

---
title: Get Started
---

import { CodeBlocksTable } from '~/components/plugins/CodeBlocksTable';

## Create a new module

To create a new Expo module from scratch, just run `yarn create expo-module` or `npm create expo-module`.
The script will ask you a few questions and then generate the native Expo module along with the example app for iOS and Android that uses your new module.

## Set up a library as an Expo module

You may want to use the Expo Modules API in existing React Native libraries, for example with [AppDelegate Subscribers](./appdelegate-subscribers.md) you can hook into `AppDelegate` methods without requiring developers to copy any code over to their own `AppDelegate`. This is particularly useful to add seamless support for Expo managed projects to a library. The following steps will set up your existing React Native library to have access to the Expo Modules API.

> Create the [module config](module-config) **expo-module.config.json** file just near your **package.json** and start from the empty object `{}` in there. We will fill it in later to enable specific features. <br/>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create the [module config](module-config) **expo-module.config.json** file just near your **package.json** and start from the empty object `{}` in there. We will fill it in later to enable specific features.

```

Empty line in MD should replace the `<br/>` if I understand the use case correcctly.

<CodeBlocksTable tabs={["package.json"]}>

```json
{
  // ...
  "devDependencies": {
    "expo-modules-core": "^X.Y.Z"
  },
  "peerDependencies": {
    "expo": "*"
  }
}
```

</CodeBlocksTable>

## Create a native module

To use the Expo Modules API for native modules, you need to [set up your library as an Expo module](#set-up-a-library-as-an-expo-module). Once that is complete, create Swift and Kotlin files from the below templates.

<CodeBlocksTable tabs={["MyModule.swift", "MyModule.kt"]}>

```swift
import ExpoModulesCore

public class MyModule: Module {
  public func definition() -> ModuleDefinition {
    // Definition components go here
  }
}
```

```kotlin
package my.module.package

import expo.modules.kotlin.modules.Module
import expo.modules.kotlin.modules.ModuleDefinition

class MyModule : Module() {
  override fun definition() = ModuleDefinition {
    // Definition components go here
  }
}
```

</CodeBlocksTable>

Then add your classes to iOS and/or Android `modules` in the [module config](module-config). Expo Autolinking will automatically link these classes as native modules in user's project.

<CodeBlocksTable tabs={["expo-module.config.json"]}>

> ```json

Author: Oh that's nice, thanks! For now I'll keep using the CodeBlocksTable though as they are a bit different visually. I'd rather prefer to keep code blocks consistent. Do you maybe plan to redesign it?

> ```json

Reviewer: As discussed, we will update the `CodeBlocksTable` and it's usages after the series of PR for Expo Modules will land. 🙂

---
title: Get Started
---

import { CodeBlocksTable } from '~/components/plugins/CodeBlocksTable';
import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

## Create a new module

> To create a new Expo module from scratch, just run the `create-expo-module` script as below. The script will ask you a few questions and then generate the native Expo module along with the example app for iOS and Android that uses your new module.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To create a new Expo module from scratch, run the `create-expo-module` script as shown below. The script will ask you a few questions and then generate the native Expo module along with the example app for iOS and Android that uses your new module.
```

<Terminal cmd={[`$ npx create-expo-module`]} />

## Set up a library as an Expo module

> You may want to use the Expo Modules API in existing React Native libraries, for example with [AppDelegate Subscribers](./appdelegate-subscribers.mdx) you can hook into `AppDelegate` methods without requiring developers to copy any code over to their own `AppDelegate`. This is particularly useful to add seamless support for Expo managed projects to a library. The following steps will set up your existing React Native library to have access to the Expo Modules API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use the Expo Modules API in existing React Native libraries. For example, with [AppDelegate Subscribers](./appdelegate-subscribers.mdx) you can hook into `AppDelegate` methods without requiring developers to copy any code to their project's `AppDelegate`. This is particularly useful to add seamless support for Expo managed projects to a library. The following steps will set up your existing React Native library to access the Expo Modules API.
```

As per the [writing style guide](https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/guides/Expo%20Documentation%20Writing%20Style%20Guide.md#avoiding-using-outdated-workflows), let's try to avoid the mention of "managed" (As per my understanding, I assume, here you meant the "projects in the managed workflow"?).

Also, to me, "Expo managed projects to a library" phrase sounds confusing. I don't understand what "projects to a library" mean in this context. Can you please explain that to me?
From my understand, I think you mean to say, libraries that can run in Expo projects in general (whether they are developing using Expo Go or Development builds?)

Author: Yeah, I meant "projects in the managed workflow". This feature is like config plugins — it's more useful in the managed workflow, but also works in bare so I think we can just remove this phrase if it sounds confusing.

Author: I entirely removed that part about AppDelegate Subscribers, it was a bit out of context.

> Create the [module config](./module-config.mdx) **expo-module.config.json** file just near your **package.json** and start from the empty object `{}` in there. We will fill it in later to enable specific features.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create the [**expo-module.config.json**](./module-config.mdx) file at the root of your project and start from the empty object `{}` inside it. We will fill it in later to enable specific features.
```

> The presence of the module config is enough for Expo Autolinking to recognize it as an Expo module and automatically link your native code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The presence of the module config is enough for [Expo Autolinking](https://docs.expo.dev/workflow/glossary-of-terms/#expo-autolinking) to recognize it as an Expo module and automatically link your native code.
```

I think it is good to add a link to our glossary to provide context on "Expo Autolinking"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The presence of the module config is enough for Expo Autolinking](/workflow/glossary-of-terms/#expo-autolinking) to recognize it as an Expo module and automatically link your native code.
```

Good idea! Just remember to skip the domain in link.

Reviewer 2: My bad 😅

### Add the `expo-modules-core` native dependency

Add `expo-modules-core` as a dependency in your podspec and **build.gradle** files.<br/>

<CodeBlocksTable tabs={["*.podspec", "build.gradle"]}>

```ruby
# ...
Pod::Spec.new do |s|
  # ...
  s.dependency 'ExpoModulesCore'
end
```

```groovy
// ...
dependencies {
  // ...
  implementation project(':expo-modules-core')
}
```

</CodeBlocksTable>

### Add Expo packages to dependencies

> Add `expo` package as a peer dependency in your **package.json** — we recommend using `*` as a version range so as not to cause any duplicated packages in user's **node_modules** folder. Your library also needs to depend on `expo-modules-core` but only as a dev dependency — it's already provided in the projects depending on your library by the `expo` package with the version of core that is compatible with the specific SDK used in the project.<br/>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Add the `expo` package as a peer dependency in your **package.json** — we recommend using `*` for the version range so as not to cause any duplicated packages in the user's **node_modules** folder. Your library also depends on `expo-modules-core` as a dev dependency — it's already provided by the `expo` package with a core version that is compatible with the specific SDK used in your project.<br/>
```

Author: To be honest I think `Your library also needs to depend on` is correct — it doesn't depend on `expo-modules-core` until you add it as a dev dependency 😅

Reviewer 2: 😄 Well then, can we explicitly say "`expo-modules-core` but only if it is added as a dev dependency"?

>it's already provided by the `expo` package with a core version that is compatible with the specific SDK used in your project

The above seems to imply that it is being added automatically.

<CodeBlocksTable tabs={["package.json"]}>

```json
{
  // ...
  "devDependencies": {
    "expo-modules-core": "^X.Y.Z"
  },
  "peerDependencies": {
    "expo": "*"
  }
}
```

</CodeBlocksTable>

## Create a native module

> To use the Expo Modules API for native modules, you need to [set up your library as an Expo module](#set-up-a-library-as-an-expo-module). Once that is complete, create Swift and Kotlin files from the below templates.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use the Expo Modules API for native modules, you need to [set up your library as an Expo module](#set-up-a-library-as-an-expo-module). Once complete, create Swift and Kotlin files from the templates below.
```

<CodeBlocksTable tabs={["MyModule.swift", "MyModule.kt"]}>

```swift
import ExpoModulesCore

public class MyModule: Module {
  public func definition() -> ModuleDefinition {
    // Definition components go here
  }
}
```

```kotlin
package my.module.package

import expo.modules.kotlin.modules.Module
import expo.modules.kotlin.modules.ModuleDefinition

class MyModule : Module() {
  override fun definition() = ModuleDefinition {
    // Definition components go here
  }
}
```

</CodeBlocksTable>

> Then add your classes to iOS and/or Android `modules` in the [module config](./module-config.mdx). Expo Autolinking will automatically link these classes as native modules in user's project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then, add your classes to iOS and/or Android `modules` in the [module config](./module-config.mdx). Expo Autolinking will automatically link these classes as native modules in the user's project.
```

<CodeBlocksTable tabs={["expo-module.config.json"]}>

```json
{
  "ios": {
    "modules": ["MyModule"]
  },
  "android": {
    "modules": ["my.module.package.MyModule"]
  }
}
```

</CodeBlocksTable>

> If you already have an example app in your workspace, ensure that the module is linked correctly.
> 
> **On iOS** you need to run `pod install` to link the new class.
> 
> **On Android** the native module class will be linked automatically before building, as part of the Gradle build task.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you already have an example app in your workspace, ensure that the module is linked correctly.
- **On iOS** you need to run `pod install` to link the new class.
- **On Android** the native module class will be linked automatically before building, as part of the Gradle build task.
```

These two points sounds like they are part of the statement preceding them about linking.

Reviewer: We also should probably reorder those, so Android is before iOS.

> These module classes can now be accessed from the JavaScript code using the `requireNativeModule` function from the `expo-modules-core` package. For simplicity we recommend to create a separate file that exports the native module.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These module classes can now be accessed from the JavaScript code using the `requireNativeModule` function from the `expo-modules-core` package. We recommend creating a separate file that exports the native module for simplicity.
```

<CodeBlocksTable tabs={["MyModule.ts"]}>

```typescript
import { requireNativeModule } from 'expo-modules-core';

export default requireNativeModule('MyModule');
```

</CodeBlocksTable>

> Now that the class is set up and linked, you can start to implement its functionality. See the [native module API](./module-api.mdx) reference page, along with links to [examples](./module-api.mdx#examples) of simple to moderately complex real-world modules that you can reference to better understand how to use the API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now that the class is set up and linked, you can start to implement its functionality. See the [native module API](./module-api.mdx) reference page and links to [examples](./module-api.mdx#examples) from simple to moderately complex real-world modules for your reference to better understand how to use the API.
```
